# **CURSO : DATA SCIENCE FOUNDATIONS - DATA SCIENCE TOOLS** #

## Topic : Introduction ##
 Welcome to the course! You've begun one of the most complete overviews on data science tooling that you’ll currently find on the internet. This doesn’t mean that we cover each and every tool, but later in the course we’ll introduce a comprehensive list of tasks a data scientist needs to perform and give you the top two or three open source and commercial tools available to complete them.
 We also explain how the tools overlap in functionality, what their pros and cons are, and how these tools can address the whole data science pipeline. Let’s start with data. Data is obviously central to data scientists.
 In this course, we’ll show you how to manage, extract, transform, analyze, and visualize data. Now, you might be able to survive data science without programming skills if you use the right set of tools. 
 However, we highly recommend getting familiar with programming and the related programming frameworks for data science. To help you along, we’ll introduce you to the most commonly used programming languages and frameworks available for data science. That said, there is a lot of automation available in the latest tooling that a data scientist can use.
 In this course, we’ll explain how to make use of those tools to save time and uncover inspiration. Visual programming is available in many tools. In this course, you’ll learn how visual programming can be used to speed up development time and to help non-programmers enter the field of data science.
 Open source software is leading the field of data science, but its total costs of ownership, or "TCO," can be higher at times due to configuration, customization and maintenance costs. As a result, commercial software also has its place, especially since the new generation of commercial data science software leverages open source software and open standards. This makes it easy to migrate between tools and can reduce overall TCO.
 In this course, we’ll introduce you to both open source and commercial software and point out their strengths and weaknesses for data science. We'll also show you ways that you can take advantage of their respective strengths. Finally, we'll show you how cloud computing can be used to further speed up and facilitate scientists' work. We'll introduce you to the most commonly used and newly emerging cloud tools for data science.
 In addition to lectures, this course, has numerous labs to make you more familiar with the material and get hands-on experience. There are also multiple quizzes to test your learning. Nothing more to say than we’re glad to have you in the course and happy learning. In case you have trouble in any way, please don’t hesitate to contact us in the discussion forum.
 There's nothing left but to begin! We're very happy to have you with us as you start your data science journey. If you have any trouble with any of the course material, please don’t hesitate to contact us in the discussion forum. Let's get started!

### _Description : Course Overview_ ###
 What are some of the most popular data science tools, how do you use them, and what are their features? 
 In this course, you'll learn about the day-to-day experiences of Data Scientists. You’ll be introduced to some of the programming languages commonly used, including Python, R, Scala, and SQL. You’ll work with the tools that professional Data Scientists work with, like Jupyter Notebooks, RStudio IDE, and others. You will learn about what each tool is used for, what languages they can execute, and their features and limitations. With the tools hosted in the cloud on Cognitive Class Labs, you will be able to use each tool and follow instructions to run simple code in Python, R, or Scala.

-------------------------------------------------------------

### _Description : Learning Objectives_ ###

 - Explore the languages, tools, and data that data scientists use.
 - Use common open source tools to  perform data science tasks.
 - Discover IBM tools focused on data science.

## Topic : Languages of Data Science ##
 The Languages of Data Science. For anyone just getting started on their data science journey, the range of technical options can be overwhelming. There is a dizzying amount of choice when it comes to programming languages.
 Each has it's own strengths and weaknesses and there is no one right answer to the question of which one you should learn first. The answer to that question depends largely on your needs, the problems you are trying to solve, and who you are solving them for. Python, R, and SQL are the languages that we recommend you consider first and foremost. But there are so many others that have their own strengths and features. Scala, Java, C++, and Julia are some of the most popular.
 Javascript, PHP, Go, Ruby, and Visual Basic all have their own unique use cases as well.
 The language you choose to learn will depend on the things you need to accomplish and the problems you need to solve. It will also depend on what company you work for, what role you have, and the age of your existing application. We’ll explore the answers to this question as we dive into the popular languages in the data science industry. 
 There are many roles available for people who are interested in getting involved in data science: Business Analyst, Database Engineer, Data Analyst, Data Engineer, Data Scientist, Research Scientist, Software Engineer, Statistician, Product Manager, Project Manager and many more.
 Let’s dive into what we will learn in Lesson 1. We will put most of our focus on the top three Data Science languages: Python, R, and SQL, which each have their own lessons. Then we will go on to highlight other noteworthy languages and what makes them special. Then we’ll finish with a short quiz to test your knowledge! Here's what we'll cover: Python, R, SQL, Other Noteworthy, Data Science Languages and Practice Quiz.

## Topic : Introduction to Python ##
 In this video, we will review the high-level features of the Python programming language. Python is a powerhouse language. It is by far the most popular programming language for data science. According to the 2019 Kaggle Data Science and Machine Learning Survey, 75% of the over 10,000 respondents from around the world reported that they use Python on a regular basis.
 Glassdoor reported that in 2019 more than 75% of data science positions listed included Python in their job descriptions. When asked which language an aspiring data scientist should learn first, most data scientists say Python. You are probably thinking, why on earth is Python so popular? Well, let’s start with the people who use Python.
 If you already know how to program, then Python is great for you because it uses clear, readable syntax. You can do many of the things you are used to doing in other programming languages but with Python you can do it with less code. If you want to learn to program, it’s also a great starter language because of the huge
 global community and wealth of documentation.
 In fact, several different surveys in 2019 found that over 80% of data professionals worldwide use Python. Python is useful for many situations, including data science, AI and machine learning, web development, and IoT devices like the Raspberry Pi. Large organizations that use Python heavily include IBM, Wikipedia, Google, Yahoo!, CERN, NASA, Facebook, Amazon, Instagram, Spotify, and Reddit.
 Python is a powerful general-purpose programming language that can do a lot of things. It is widely supported by a global community and shepherded by the Python Software Foundation. Python is a high-level general-purpose programming language that can be applied to many different classes of problems.
 It has a large, standard library that provides tools suited to many different tasks, including but not limited to databases, automation, web scraping, text processing, image processing, machine learning, and data analytics. For data science, you can use Python's scientific computing libraries such as Pandas, NumPy, SciPy, and Matplotlib. For artificial intelligence, it has TensorFlow, PyTorch, Keras, and Scikit-learn. Python can also be used for Natural Language Processing (NLP) using the Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK).
 Another great selling point is the Python community, which has a well documented history of paving the way for diversity and inclusion efforts in the tech industry as a whole. The Python language has a code of conduct executed by the Python Software Foundation that seeks to ensure safety and inclusion for all, in both online and in person python communities.
 There are also communities like PyLadies that seek to create spaces for people interested in Python to learn in safe and inclusive environments. PyLadies is an international mentorship group with a focus on helping more women become active participants and leaders in the Python open source community.