# **CURSO : DATA SCIENCE FOUNDATIONS - DATA SCIENCE TOOLS** #

## Topic : Overview of Git/GitHub ##
 In this video, you’ll get an overview of Git and GitHub, which are popular environments among developers and data scientists for performing version control of source code files and projects and collaborating with others. You can’t talk about Git and GitHub without a basic understanding of what version control is.
 A version control system allows you to keep track of changes to your documents. This makes it easy for you to recover older versions of your document if you make a mistake, and it makes collaboration with others much easier. Here is an example to illustrate how version control works.
 Let’s say you’ve got a shopping list and you want your roommates to confirm the things you need and add additional items. Without version control, you’ve got a big mess to clean up before you can go shopping. With version control, you know EXACTLY what you need after everyone has contributed their ideas.
 Git is free and open source software distributed under the GNU General Public License. Git is a distributed version control system, which means that users anywhere in the world can have a copy of your project on their own computer; when they’ve made changes, they can sync their version to a remote server to share it with you. Git isn’t the only version control system out there, but the distributed aspect is one of the main reasons it’s become one of the most common version control systems available. Version control systems are widely used for things involving code, but you can also version control images, documents, and any number of file types.
 You can use Git without a web interface by using your command line interface, but GitHub is one of the most popular web-hosted services for Git repositories. Others include GitLab, BitBucket, and Beanstalk. There are a few basic terms that you will need to know before you can get started.
 The SSH protocol is a method for secure remote login from one computer to another. A repository contains your project folders that are set up for version control. A fork is a copy of a repository. A pull request is the way you request that someone reviews and approves your changes before they become final. A working directory contains the files and subdirectories on your computer that are associated with a Git repository.
 There are a few basic Git commands that you will always use. When starting out with a new repository, you only need create it once: either locally, and then push to GitHub, or by cloning an existing repository by using the command "git init". "git add" moves changes from the working directory to the staging area. "git status" allows you to see the state of your working directory and the staged snapshot of your changes. "git commit" takes your staged snapshot of changes and commits them to the project. "git reset" undoes changes that you’ve made to the files in your working directory. "git log" enables you to browse previous changes to a project. "git branch" lets you create an isolated environment within your repository to make changes. "git checkout" lets you see and change existing branches. "git merge" lets you put everything back together again.
 To learn how to use Git effectively and begin collaborating with data scientists around the world, you will need to learn the essential commands. Luckily for us, GitHub has amazing resources available to help you get started. Go to try.github.io to download the cheat sheets and run through the tutorials. In the following modules, we'll give you a crash course on setting up your local environment and getting started on a project.

## Topic : GitHub Foudations ( Parte 1 ) ##
 Welcome to a little introduction to git and github! It’s very basic so if you have absolutely no clue than this is for you, otherwise its maybe boring. I’m just telling you how I’m using it and I am able to survive in most of the cases with that knowledge. Sometimes I have to read the documentation for more advanced stuff, but in eighty percent of the cases what I will tell you now is sufficient. So let's actually start using github that makes things a bit more easy, there’s also competition to github.
 This is GitLab, GitLab is particularly interesting because the whole system behind GitLab is open source, so this is the hosted version, but you can have the whole system on prem and also purchase support from GitLab. Those guys are partially in Berlin, so they are pretty cool. Anyway, let’s start with github here so what I will do now is create a repository.
 A repository is the stuff, the location where your stuff goes in. So let’s call it demo, and we can choose whether we want to create a public or private repository. So that repository is remote. Thats hosted at github, and its initialized with a README and lets skip .gitignore for now, I will show you that later. 
 So we create now a repository, and once this is created its very easy to
 have a copy of this repository locally. There are two options one is cloning it via HTTPS, or via SSH. So I am always using SSH, SSH just makes things a bit more easy and the only thing you need to do is you have to add your public identity to github. I can show you that later. So now the only thing we need to do is, we go to an empty folder and then we say git clone on this link so, git clone and this link. What now happens is the contents of this is copied to my machine.
 Here I have to specify my password for my SSH identity so that is something I need to explain you later. So now go to demo, you will see here the README file and you’ll see here that is the contents of the README file. Ok now lets add the file, so you see here there is only the README and the .git folder. Please never ever touch it. So lets create another file lets say vi test.txt. And hello this is a test and now we add this to the reop. So first we of all, we say git add test.txt, and now if you say now git status. Then, we see that this file is now in the so called staging area and that is something in between your local folder and your local repository.
 So you have a local folder with the contents, you have a local repository, and you have a remote repository. And you personally you work with your local repository. And all the other guys, working together with you are working also with their local repositories, and you sync all your contents with the remote repository. So now we want to commit so we say, or lets do something else. Lets say we create a file test2 and how we say git add test2.txt.
 Now interestingly, if we now say git status those are both in the staging area.And now if we say git commit, and we say message initial commit, that is now in our local repository on this machine. And the idea is while you have the staging area, you can control which files go into a commit because the its an atomic entity in git is a commit so everything is around the commit. So you can technically control which files are going into a single commit and now what you want to do is you want to push the contents of your local repository to a remote repository.
 Because if you now go to this here to this git hub project, you see that there is no additional file. And we say now git push and what now happens is, I again have to provide a password. I don’t have the key manager or the key agent running, so now you see here we have committed this local change from the local repository to the remote repository. And now you can see that you have these two files here and if you click on that file you see first of all the content, and also you see which commit was responsible for adding this file. 
 And another interesting thing is, if you are starting from scratch you can actually also do the following. Now lets delete this project and this is a bit hard just to make sure you don’t do that accidentally, so delete this repository and you have to say demo here. Oh no i think you have to type the whole thing, yes, so now this project is deleted. Ok so now lets do something else.
 Lets create a new repository, but now lets init the repository on my machine Lets call it demo again, we dont initalize it with a README. We say create repository, and if were lucky github will show us how to do it. Ok lets actually do it ourselves. So lets actually get rid of the demo folder and lets create it again. And now do what they tell us, so we create README and we'll say git init. So now we have it initialized because now we have the dot git folder which you never ever should touch. And now we say git add README, but we can also say git add dot.
 So its adding everything which was in our folder, so its only the README.md and then we say git commit as usual test or whatever. And now we can't say git push now, if we say git push it doesn’t know where to push it because actually we haven’t told this local folder that it should connect to remote repository. That we do with git add remote add origin and that’s the URL of our project. And then we can say git push - u origin master and that’s basically it. 
 So we have to recreate, sorry re enter the password, for my RSA key and if we are lucky and everything worked fine. We can go to the project and we should see the readme file which is the case. Ok that’s it for now! That’s the first part in the next video, I will show you how to do branches and actually also how to create pull request. Thanks for watching and see you later!

## Topic : GitHub Foundations ( Parte 2 ) ##
 Welcome back to the second part of my little GitHub for Dummies series. One thing I forgot on the last video is how to sync if someone else has made a change. Okay. Let's consider this repository here, we have nothing inside; so this is actually the remote repository here on GitHub.
 So, we will again create a little README file, add "README: and then we say "git add" and then we say "git commit" "blahblah" and then "git push". Then we have the README file here, and now let's create a new file in the remote repository that's something which will happen also if someone else pushes something to that repository.
 You will see a new file... and this is now only in the remote repository and not in my Local (repository). You see here, there's only the README and not the new file. To obtain this new file, you say just "git pull" and then you see here the new file is also here. And yeah, that's basically it.
 And then interestingly let's say you are, for example, working on a huge sub-project in the repository and you don't want to interfere with the main work going on. The main work is basically called a branch, which is "master" You can create your own branch. So you can say, "Git branch mybranch" for example. So, then you say "git status" we still see that we are here on the master branch.
 Now we say "git checkout mybranch" and now, see, we are switched to my branch. and now we say "git status" and you also see here we are on mybranch. Now what I do is... here we have those two files, and we say "# stuff on branch" here and we say "stuffonbranch.txt" so "git add stuffonbranch.txt" then "git commit" and "bla" and "git push". Ah yeah, we have to also create this branch remotely.
 So, and now we push it to a remote branch. Now we can actually see that mybranch has been created here and you see here the file stuff on branch which is not on the master. So, what we do now here is we switch back to the main branch. So that's "git checkout master" and then we say "git merge mybranch". So this has been automatically merged so you see here we have stuff on branch also in my local folder here. But we see here it is still not in the master, ok?
 So we say "git push" and if you now refresh you see stuff on branch. So what happened here is we have merged from the local branch repository into the local master repository and now we push the contents of the local master repository to the remote master repository, and that way we have merged branch back into the master branch. So, that is all for now here. In the next video, I will show you how to actually create pull requests and contribute to foreign repositories.


## Topic : GitHub Foundations ( Parte 3 ) ##
 Ok so this is the last video now, on the series 'Git for Dummies'. So, I just want to show you how to fork a repository on github, how to commit to a forked repository and how to create a pull request. So lets consider you want to contribute to the very best and most important github repository on the planet.
 This is the coursera repository in the IBM organization which I’m maintaining, and lets assume you have found an error in one of those software components. I mean its impossible there is an error but just consider there is an error and you want to fix it. So what we can actually do is, you can either ask me to give you commit rights to that repository but its better if you just create a fork of this repository and then commit to your repository, to your fork and create a pull request. 
 Let me show you how that works, so you see here 529 other folks already forked this repository. By the way just give me a star if you like, I want to have 1,000 stars soon! Here you can click on fork, and then it asks you where you want to fork it into. So this is in the IBM organization, and then I’m forking it into my private account.
 That means I will have a coursera repository in my account here, and you see here even its showing me 'forked from IBM/Coursera' Now I can change something, I can either make changes directly in here but to make it a bit more complicated, lets actually make the changes locally. So I clone it, oh I shouldn't forget to show you to add your RSA public key to the github repo, no, github system. But I will do it later, so now cloning this Coursera repository, this remote repository into my local repository.
 You see here again its in the 'romeokienzler' account, which is basically a copy of the official IBM one. I think we have to wait a bit because its quite huge, I should have set up two little test repositories but anyway, lets wait for that long. While we are waiting let me show you something else. That’s about the SSH keys, and now in our home folder, and in your home folder you have an SSH folder.
 I have already created the key so that’s a private key, never give it to anybody and never ever show it, the contents to anybody. And you create those and you can set a passphrase for the keys and I will put the commands for creating those into the description of this video. But that’s the public key that you can safely give to anybody and share with anybody.
 So I can also do that here, so I can show you the contents. So see, that’s the public key, and what I do is if I go to the github page, I have to go to, I think the account settings, SSH and GPG keys. You see here, here you have to add the key, so you can say new SSH key and you just paste the contents of the public key. And now I’m not doing that because I’ve already added it. But that’s all you need to do in github!
 And from now on you can use SSH because only you have the corresponding private key to that public key here therefore you can safely authenticate against github. So you also know this and I’m hoping that in the meanwhile, this other cloning is done. So go to coursera and lets have a look into that repository and so we have the readme for example, lets have a look at the readme. 
 Maybe there is something I can improve on the readme. So this is the github project for the following coursera specialization. So lets put Coursera into a capital and save. Ok as you remember I need to say 'git add' and then if I say 'git status' the readme file is modified. I say ok, 'git commit'. I say now message and now it’s important since it’s a real repository I just can’t write a crap message. 'corrected little typo' and now I say git, push OK. 
 So now the corrected readme is in my local repository and in the remote repository. But only in my private account, if I go to this repository here, so in my private account, then if I click on readme. So first of all you see here 21 seconds ago it has been changed. You see here the commit message 'corrected little typo'. And if you click on the readme you see here now the C is now capitalcase. Now I want to get this change back into the official repository IBM/Coursera.
 And you see here there is a contributor, so she also committed some stuff via pull request into the main repository so its straightforward. You can create a pull request easily here, on that button and then the difference between my repository and the official repository is just used and you see here the only difference is here the little typo correction and say create pull request. So that’s something I’m doing as a potential contributor and I say create pull request.
 So now I myself as I’m an administrator of the IBM repository, I will get an email and you see here I’m already forwarded (to the IBM repository) so let’s consider am not Romeo, I am somebody else the administrator of the repository and here I see there is a pull request coming in and I will review it So I see ok someone fixed a little typo in my repository that’s something that I can definitely accept. So I say merge pull request, confirm merge and usually what I say is merged, thanks a lot, or so, to be polite to your contributors. Now here I’m in the Coursera repository and if you now click on readme you see here there’s a capitalcase and that’s basically how it looks.
 Now here you see he commit and the commit message. And that’s basically all, so I hope this helped you a bit and with that knowledge you will survive around eighty percent of your git and github problems and work. If you have specific questions feel free to ask me in the discussion forum or in the comments below the video and thanks for watching and have a nice day! Bye! Thank you very much!

### _Description_ ###
 O Git é um sistema de controle de versão distribuído que permite rastrear alterações em arquivos e colaborar de forma eficiente, garantindo que versões antigas possam ser recuperadas e que múltiplos usuários trabalhem simultaneamente sem conflitos. O fluxo de trabalho fundamental envolve a interação entre o diretório local e o repositório remoto (hospedado em plataformas como GitHub ou GitLab). Através de comandos como git add, as mudanças são enviadas para uma área de preparação (staging area); com o git commit, elas são registradas no histórico local como uma unidade atômica; e, finalmente, o git push sincroniza essas alterações com o servidor. Para manter o ambiente local atualizado com o trabalho de colegas, utiliza-se o git pull, que baixa e integra as novidades remotas. 
 
 Para uma colaboração organizada, o Git utiliza branches (ramos), que permitem criar ambientes isolados para desenvolver novas funcionalidades sem afetar o código principal até que o trabalho seja finalizado e unido via git merge. No ecossistema do GitHub, a colaboração em projetos de terceiros é facilitada pelo fork — uma cópia do repositório para a sua própria conta — e pelo pull request, que é o pedido formal para que o proprietário original revise e aceite suas melhorias. Além disso, a segurança e a praticidade no acesso remoto são garantidas pelo uso de chaves SSH, que permitem autenticar o usuário de forma robusta entre sua máquina e o servidor, eliminando a necessidade de login manual constante.

---------------------------------------------------------------

### _Review Questions_ ###
 
 1. _Which of the following statements are true?_

    > Resposta : **Git is an integrated development environment for data science**

 2. _Which of the following statements about repositories are correct? (Select all that apply.)_

    > Resposta : **The local repository is only accessible by myself | The staging is only accessible by myself | The remote repository is accessible by all contributors**

 3. _What is the best process contributing a bugfix to a foreign repository?_

    > Resposta : **Fork the repository, update the fork and create a pull request.**
 